1. What is the purpose of the public keyword in Java?
a) To restrict access to a class
b) To make a class or method accessible outside its package
c) To declare variables accessible only in the same package
d) To define constants



2. Why must the class name and file name match in a Java program with a public class?
a) To enable polymorphism
b) To allow multiple classes in the same file
c) To adhere to Java’s file-naming convention for public classes
d) To improve runtime performance


3. What is the significance of the static keyword in the main method?
a) It makes the main method final.
b) It allows the JVM to invoke the main method without creating an object of the class.
c) It improves performance during method execution.
d) It makes the main method private.



4. What is the role of void in the main method?
a) It specifies the method does not take arguments.
b) It indicates the method cannot return an object.
c) It signifies the method does not return any value.
d) It denotes that the method is private.


5. What type is the parameter args in the main method?
a) A single string
b) An array of strings
c) A list of integers
d) A map of key-value pairs


6. Which of the following streams is used for standard output?
a) System.err
b) System.out
c) System.in
d) System.console



7. What does System.err stream handle?
a) Standard input
b) Standard output
c) Error output
d) File input


8. How does PrintStream handle data internally?
a) It converts data to raw bytes without buffering.
b) It buffers data temporarily before writing it to the output stream.
c) It writes data directly to a database.
d) It sends data directly to memory without formatting.


9. Which method is used to print a line of text and flush the output buffer?
a) write()
b) flush()
c) println()
d) readLine()



10. What will happen if you pass an integer as a command-line argument?
a) It will throw an error.
b) It will be treated as an integer.
c) It will be treated as a string.
d) It will be ignored.


11. How can you redirect the standard output to a file?
a) By using System.setOut()
b) By using System.out.write()
c) By overriding the main method
d) By using System.console()



12. Which of the following is true about System.out?
a) It is a static method.
b) It is an instance of the PrintWriter class.
c) It is a static field of the System class.
d) It is used only for debugging.



13. What is the default behavior of System.in?
a) It reads input from a file.
b) It reads input from the keyboard.
c) It automatically reads input from System.out.
d) It is disabled by default.



14. Why is buffering used in PrintStream?
a) To reduce the memory usage
b) To enhance I/O performance by minimizing direct interaction with the output device
c) To improve code readability
d) To prevent overwriting data


15. Can multiple classes in a file contain a main method?
a) Yes, but only one can be executed at runtime.
b) No, only one class can have the main method.
c) Yes, and all are executed simultaneously.
d) No, because the JVM does not allow it.


16. What happens if void is omitted in the main method?
a) The program runs as usual.
b) Compilation error.
c) Runtime error.
d) JVM ignores the method.



17. What does String... args in the main method signify?
a) It is invalid syntax.
b) It allows passing an array or variable arguments.
c) It is used for multi-threading.
d) It enables passing integers instead of strings.



18. Which of these is NOT a valid modifier for the main method?
a) final
b) public
c) static
d) private



19. What is the output of the following code?
java
Copy code
public class Test {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println(args.length);
    }
}
If run as java Test Hello World: a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) Compilation Error



20. What is the result of using System.err.println() instead of System.out.println()?
a) Output is displayed in red.
b) Output is directed to the error stream.
c) Output is ignored.
d) It causes a runtime exception.


